[Inspiring Music Playing]
>> MARIE: So we bought this house, which is
a kind of earthship, 10 years ago
and we renovated it while we were living in
Quebec City
and we now live full-time in it for 2 years.
And it's an off-grid house.
We live on solar panels,
and rainwater, and with a composting toilet.
We also have a big garden outside, about 250
square meters
and we produce a lot of our food
and we also have a greenhouse here
in our living room where we grow food also.
So yeah, in summer maybe our grocery is around
$30/week.
We buy yogurt sometimes, sometimes cheese
as a treat
but otherwise we get the eggs, the veggies,
and the fruit from here.
We do our own bread here.
So we have a kind of self-sufficiency and
the garden gives us a lot food too
for the winter because we collected plenty
of fruits and we freeze them
or we preserve them as jams so we get a lot
all year long.
It's a very good feeling to be self-sufficient,
to depend on yourself
for your food and everything.
So we wanted this, we wanted to live in nature,
too.
Very close to nature and the countryside.
We didn't want to have a mortgage, too.
The expenses that you don't have when you
live off-grid is very important for us
because it means that you don't need to work
so much
or maybe you can take more holidays.
We love travelling, too, so it allows us to
make a good mix between being here and travelling.
>> FRANCIS: So we were looking for land and
I found this house on the web.
And we decided just to come check it out and
it was not exactly the region we wanted to
move
but when we arrived here and we just fell
in love with the house
because it's just what we were looking for.
>> MARIE: And it was very cheap, it was $15,000
CAD.
It was not in this shape, I mean we renovated
it a lot.
We've put some money but still it's a very
affordable house
for all that we have, the space outside and
the inside of the house.
We fell in love with the owner, and he fell in
love with us, somehow.
He had built this house 30 years ago, so he
was a pioneer in building, kind of, earthships
here in Quebec.
He built this house all by himself, it took
him 5 years to build it
with the rocks from the land here, and the
beams from the forest.
And so he built the house, lived in it, and
then he left for 7 years
and he was sad that the house was getting
bad.
So he was looking for some people who would
take care of it.
And we came and we were much younger than
he was, and we were
in the same way, same spirit as he was.
So he was really happy to find young people.
He left us all his books
about homesteading and all this, and for us
it was such a gift.
[Inspiring Music Playing]
The first 8 years we had the house, we were
living in Quebec
and so we were commuting.
We were coming here on the weekends
and working on the house
but we are not really skilled in construction
so we needed help
and we had some help.
And also we were working in the garden because
when we came here, there was nothing,
just apple trees.
So we planted everything,
and for us it was very important to have the
garden from the beginning.
So we worked, we had the flashlight and it
was 10pm at night on Saturday
and we were doing the garden because we had
only two days,
and then we, at the same time, we launched
a social economy enterprise
so we were very busy in town, and then we
had our daughter
so it was quite a lot job, and back and forth,
doing all this
but we made it, and two years ago we decided,
ok, now it's time to be full-time.
>> FRANCIS: So now we're able to garden when
we want,
and we have plenty of space to do what we
want,
and so yeah, we feel kind of free.
>> MARIE: So the total house is around 100
square meters
with 35 square meters for the greenhouse.
We made it bigger because we wanted to have
a living space in here.
So we are now in the greenhouse, that's where
we have a lot of our meals
because we have a table here.
We also have our bathroom in the greenhouse,
too, with a toilet and a shower.
And we have an extra bed for the visit, and
as a sofa.
And inside the house, we have...its like a
loft
so we have our bed, our daughter's bed, we
have the kitchen,
and the dining room.
And in the back we have a root cellar and
outside we have
a shed and another toilet, a composting toilet.
>> FRANCIS: the water is coming from the rain.
We have different systems
to collect the rainwater.
We have a big tank outside to collect the
water from the greenhouse,
and this water is transferred to a concrete
cylinder underground.
So this water is coming from gravity into
the house.
And we have another tank in the greenhouse,
it's 1,000 litres.
We collect rainwater from the roof, basically,
that goes inside the greenhouse,
and we have another [system] from the shed
behind.
This is mostly for the garden and the chickens.
>> MARIE: So in total, when everything is
full it can be 10,000 litres of water.
So we almost never lack water.
One challenge here is that we still didn't
find
spring water [well water], so we need to go
get our drinking water from another place,
a cabin that we have access to that is not
far from here.
We could maybe drink the rainwater, it's filtered,
we filter it.
>> FRANCIS: We can use a system to filter
the water and to purify but at the moment
we didn't for some reason
we prefer to use the well at the other cabin,
it's quite simple that way.
[Inspiring Music Playing]
>> MARIE: We feel really connected to nature
because it's all around
but also because as we use the rainwater,
when it rains, for us it's:
"Oh Wow!
It's going to water the garden and fill up
the tanks"
So even Emma, she is happy when it rains.
You know, usually, we say: "Oh no, it's raining"
and people are sad because it's not sunny,
but in our case, we're happy when it rains
because we know we need it.
And it's the same with the sun, we need the
sun to get our power
so it's a very close connection.
>> FRANCIS: We have two little systems, solar
systems,
and two packs of batteries, two solar panels
and it's very simple
but it works really well, everything is fine.
The most consumption that we have is using
internet.
Eventually we want to make it bigger.
We try to use only 12 volt when it's possible.
All the lights, and the pump, and eventually
I want to make the internet as well 12 volt.
>> MARIE: For most of the time it's enough,
but a little more would be even better.
>> FRANCIS: So most of the heat is coming
from the sun, because we are passive solar
but we live in Canada, so we have a wood stove.
We have an Amish cookstove in the middle of
the house,
and we use it to cook, we use it for the hot
water,
and we use it to heat the house.
This house, because it's underground, and
because we have a greenhouse in the house
it's kind of a challenge for humidity because
the house can be cold
and the greenhouse can be really hot so it
creates humidity,
and that's a challenge to create more ventilation,
natural ventilation.
>> MARIE: It's especially when we are not
here for awhile, when we come back from travel
or in the spring, for example, so the lower
part of the walls can get humid
but we deal with it, and we warm up the oven
and it works really well.
>> FRANCIS: After two days it's alright.
>> MARIE: We have two dry composting toilets.
So one is inside, it's more for night,
and for our daughter, and in winter when it's
freezing cold outside
the other one is outside and it's the main
one.
>> FRANCIS: And we have a pond for grey water.
So we have plants that filter the grey water
in the pond.
It's only the water from the shower and the
sink that goes there
and that's it, it's that simple.
>> MARIE: The house itself works very well
in winter, and even without heat
it will stay above zero degrees.
And the former owner, he loved winter here.
So someone who wants to live very relaxed
and read books all winter long, it's a perfect
place for this.
And even in February for example, you can
be here with little clothes
and it can be warm on a sunny day
but most of the time because we are travellers
and we like discovering other places,
and it's part of our lifestyle, most of the
time we go away for winter.
And usually we go for two, three, four months
for travel.
So we went to Europe, I come from France originally,
so usually
we go to Spain or France,
but the last two years, we went to Florida
for a road trip, and last year
it was Mexico, for four months.
So our off-grid situation, and the fact that
we don't have a mortgage
that needs to be paid every month,
and we have very little expenses, allows us
to travel.
We kind of found a balance between our homesteading
will,
we want to have a garden, and we want to grow
our food,
and also, our wish to travel because it's
the two parts of our life.
Two things that we really love, and we manage
to do it this way.
[Inspiring Music Playing]
Emma is in first grade now, and we decided
to send her to school here in the village
because we love the school, it's a very small
one, with like 50-something kids.
For us, it's important that she meets friends,
she is an only child,
and so it's good that she spends some time
in a community of people her age.
And also, this gives us time for work, either
here, or our job,
and she comes back from school at three, usually,
so we have plenty of time.
But when we travel, like last year, for four
months,
we did home school, or "travel school" ...RV
school,
and we loved it.
We did around one hour each day, and she didn't
lose anything.
She can read now already, and she liked it,
and we liked it, too.
And we learned so much while travelling so
it's a good way to learn.
>> FRANCIS: We created Les Urbainsculteurs,
urban gardening, in Quebec City in 2009.
It's a non-profit organization that we created
together,
and we were doing rooftop garden, many projects
in the city,
it worked really well and we changed kind
of the mentality
of horticulture in Quebec.
So to plant more food in the city.
So with this mission accomplished, we decided
just to move away
and to become homesteaders.
And now we have a new project, we are Hempbassadors,
we want to promote industrial hemp, the different
uses of it,
and all the opportunity that it can create
for the Canadian economy.
So yeah, we started the project four months
ago and we're really happy about it.
>> MARIE: Industrial hemp is allowed in Canada
for 20 years now,
but it's still emerging, re-emerging.
When we started to read more about hemp, we
realized how great of a solution it is,
because it provides food, it provides clothing,
it provides
construction material, shelter, so many things.
It can make plastic, paper...and it's a very
ecological plant.
It doesn't require pesticides, fungicides,
and all this, so it grows very easily.
The idea is to go meet people who work with
hemp and interview them,
and show their work, and promote the plant
in general.
We want to be part of this and we want to...just
as we did with urban agriculture
when it was not known, our goal with hemp
is to make it go mainstream.
>> MAT: I hope you enjoyed checking out this
video and learning about Francis and Marie's
story.
We find their lifestyle and the projects they're
working on really inspiring.
If you want to learn more about the work they're
doing to promote hemp as the amazing plant
that it is,
you can check them out on Facebook and Instagram
@hempbassadors
Also, if you want to see more stories of people
living off-grid or in earthships,
you can check out our playlists, they're also
going to be linked in the description of this
video.
Thanks for watching, see you next time!